Your web browser is kind of dumb. You see,
when you type in a website address
like academy.network shock.com,
it has no idea how to get there
because to actually visit the website,
you have to know the IP address
of the server it lives on.
It's essentially its phone number
and your web browser doesn't know it,
but if you press enter, it does
get there. What am I talking about?
It's kind of like this.
If I actually, hold on.
If I handed you an old phone and said,
here, call your friend Bernard. Go ahead.
There you go. Put the number
in. You couldn't do it.
You don't know Bernard's phone number.
We don't memorize those anymore.
You just know his name, Bernard.
But if you could grab your phone,
open up your contacts app
and type in Bernard Boom,
you would see his phone number and
then you could dial the number. Oh,
that's really fun.
That is DNS the domain name system.
Your browser doesn't know Bernard's
phone number or the IP address for
academy.network check.com, so
it has to check its contacts,
and in this case that'll be a DNS server.
A server that's similar to your contacts
app will map domain names or website
names to an IP address, Bernard's name,
Bernard's phone number, website name,
IP address, so your browser will
query or ask the DNS server, Hey,
what's the IP address for
Academy network check.com?
I got to get there and the DNS server
will respond with the IP address and boom,
you're good to go. You
can visit that website.
This DNS process is vital to how the
internet works without it, websites,
emails, and pretty much anything to
do with the internet would break,
and it often does when DNS stops working,
which often happens because this process
I outlined here is a bit more complex
than I've shown. Also,
this process can be hacked.
There are ways to secure yourself.
I use secure DNS from Twin Gate,
the sponsor of this video, twin
Gate is my VPN replacement,
and they have amazing DNS features.
We'll talk more about them here in a bit.
This is going to be fun.
We're going to trace all the DNS queries
that your computer will use to get to
academy.network chuck.com,
and there's quite a few.
You're about to see how the
internet works. So here we go.
You open your browser,
you're ready to learn because you want
to go out to academy.network chuck.com
where I teach on this and many
other things like our new course,
intro to laptops and mobile devices,
part of our new a plus course.
If you're just getting started in
it, oh, by the way, here's you,
you're excited and you got a cup of
coffee so you're ready to learn it.
That just gave you a refill coffee break.
So you launch your browser and type
in academy.network chuck.com. Now,
before your computer goes anywhere,
he might actually already know the IP
address of academy.network chuck.com.
He'll use his stub resolver, which
sounds hilarious. I love saying that.
It's just the term for the DNS
client running on your machine,
but it's called a stub Resolver.
The Stub Resolver will check your cache
because if you've recently been to
academy.network check.com,
the IP address might be there stored
in your cache for safekeeping,
and if it is, you're good to go.
You don't have to go out to a DNS server
and ask it questions, but in this case,
this is your first time. You've never
been there before. That's crazy.
How have you never been there
before? Let's keep going.
So your step Resolver knows he needs some
help. It's time to ask his DNS server,
his DNS server. What do you
mean your computer will have?
And it's a network configuration
along with its IP address,
A DNS server that I can talk to.
This is something that you configure
or it's just given to you by the D HT P
server in your network. What is that?
You'll learn about that in Network
Check Academy. Check it out.
You're about to go there right now.
A very common DNS server
you might use is Google.
They have a DNS server found
at the IP address, 8 8 8 8.
It's one of the very few IP
addresses I have memorized.
So your Stub Resolver will send
a query a DNS query saying, Hey,
Google my public DNS server.
Surely you know the IP address of
academy.network chuck.com, right?
And Google might go, actually,
no, I don't Wait, wait, what?
Yes. You see Google's public DNS
server is a recursive DNS server,
which means he may not know all
the IP addresses for every website,
but he knows a guy who knows the guy
who can tell him he's going to make
multiple requests to other
DNS servers to find out,
are you ready for this adventure? I'm
telling you, it's a crazy one. Now,
sometimes he may not have to ask anybody
because similar to your Stub Resolver,
he may have some cash.
Someone may have already been
to academy.network check.com,
and he's got the IP address saved
in his cash, and in that case,
he'll just tell you, but we're
going to assume he doesn't.
So if Google doesn't know then who does?
Now the next step involves some mafia
bosses. Yes, DNS does have a hierarchy,
and at the very top are the DNS
mafia bosses. I'm not kidding.
It's kind of crazy. They're
called the Roots. That's for real.
The roots are run by these 12 companies
or organizations, big names like nasa,
the DOD ign,
they control and manage 13 server
groups or 13 named authorities,
and these are hundreds of servers strewn
about the world. Here's the map. Oh,
did I say hundreds? I meant 1,865.
So Google will reach out to one of
the root servers, the mafia bosses,
because surely of anyone,
they would know the IP address of
academy.network chuck.com, right? Wrong.
These are the bosses.
They don't deal with the peasant work
of domain to IP address mapping. Now,
they're all big picture.
All they care about and know about are
top level domains or TLDs. What is that?
Well, when Google talks to these root
servers, he's only asking about one thing.
This section of our URL
right here, the.com,
this is a top level domain
or a T ld, so.com, dot net,
dot co, dot coffee, these
are all top level domains.
Also country specific ones like.jp for
Japan or pH for the Philippines. Now,
what does it mean they handle
the top level domains? Well,
it means they're lazy.
They delegate everything,
meaning they're not going to tell
you any IP addresses for any domains,
but they'll say, you know what? I know
who can help you. Middle management,
my underling.
So what they maintain is a list of
other DNS servers that can help you with
these top level domains.
So in our example here,
our Google recursive DNS server is
only asking about the.com top level
domain,
and our root server will return a list
of other DNS servers that are responsible
for that.com domain. And when I say
responsible, I also mean authoritative.
They're the bosses of those
domains. Using NS lookup,
the query might look like this, and we'll
pick up one of the root servers here.
I'll choose J, and we'll ask
that mafia boss root server, Hey,
who manages the.com top level domain,
and the Mafia Boss root server
responds with a database,
a list of servers that are authoritative,
responsible for the.com top
level domain. These servers here,
these DNS servers are referred to as
top level domain servers or TLD servers,
but I want to make sure I'm labeling
our journey here. The steps.
So our Google DS server asks for it,
the root server responds. He says,
you can ask a gtld
servers.net. He manages.com,
talk to him. So armed with that knowledge,
our Google recursive DNS server will
send another query to a dot gtld
servers.net because surely he knows
the IP address for academy.network
check.com. Right? Wrong, he does
it. It's a whole journey I told you,
but Google knows that he's only asking
about one very specific piece of
information. This right
here me network, Chuck,
this part of our domain is called
the second level domain or an SLD.
So Google's not asking
this T LD server, Hey,
what's CIP address for academy.network
chuck.com. Now he's asking, Hey,
who manages network chuck.com?
Who is the authority for
that second level domain?
And that's what top
level domain servers do.
They keep a database or list of
authoritative servers for website domains.
I know it kind of feels like a, I
know a guy who knows a guy situation
With NS lookup. The query
might look like this,
and the.com TLD server will respond
with an authoritative server or servers
for network check.com. The second
level domain, and as you can see here,
the authoritative server for my
network check.com domain is CloudFlare.
That is who manages my
stuff. So now finally,
the Google recursive DNS
server knows who to ask.
This whole process so far
has been like, Hey, hey,
to find out who might know, and now
he knows the server is CloudFlare,
his name is Pablo. I love their
DNS server name server schemes.
So Google sends one last
DNS query, please, sir,
you're the last top of my journey.
Do you know the IP address
for academy.network chuck.com?
And guess what Pablo does? Pablo does.
Pablo knows everything about
the domain network, chuck.com.
He's got what's called the zone file,
which looks something like this.
Here's an example of a zone file starting
with a state of authority record,
an SOA essentially, Hey, who's
in charge here? It's Pablo.
He's the name server that you can contact
to find out anything you want to know
about network chuck.com,
including things like and not limited
to the IP address for network chuck.com.
If you want to visit the main
website, you should. It's really cool.
And the reason we came here,
the record for academy.network
chuck.com and the IP address it belongs
to. Finally, oh my gosh, it's here.
And that's what Pablo responds with.
Good old 1 0 4 18 do
40 two.one three nine.
Google has done it.
He quickly updates his cash saving
that precious tidbit of information for
later. And then finally, he can tell
us our computer, our stub resolver,
the IP address for academy.network
shock. And by the way,
the academy portion of this domain to
the left of the second level domain,
this is called a subdomain,
which allows me to do cool things like
make an academy and point just that URL,
that website name to a different location,
my actual academy from my main
website network, chuck.com. Now,
step back for a second
and think about this.
All of this happens every time
you visit a website. It's magic,
and it happens like that because when
you visit a website you've never been to
before, you just go there. No time
really goes by. You don't even notice it.
But behind the scenes, all this
stuff is happening. That's so crazy.
But what's also pretty stinking crazy,
the fact that this process is
often done insecurely. You see,
when you're PC your client, your
stub resolver queries a DNS server.
It will by default use UDP port
53. This is done in plain text,
meaning it's not encrypted. It's
naked for all the world to see.
So if I were a hacker, if I were a hacker,
and I've demonstrated this
numerous times on my channel,
I could sniff or get in the middle
of that traffic, take that traffic,
and I could just look at
it without any problems.
I could see what websites you're
visiting. If I really wanted to be bad,
I could pretend to be a DNS server
and respond with another IP address,
maybe an IP address that goes
to another server that's bad.
This is what happens all the
time. It's called DNS spoofing,
and it's not just the hackers.
You want to worry about your ISP,
your internet service provider,
the person providing you internet
can also see your DNS queries,
which means they can see what
websites you're visiting.
I don't want them to know
that get out of here.
That's why DNS security has become
a pretty big thing. Thankfully,
we do have a solution.
Let me talk about how you can
secure your own DNS right now.
A big hero to the rescue was a thing
called DOH, which is really cool.
It stands for DNS over H-T-T-P-S.
This is actually pretty crazy.
So H-T-T-P-S,
this is the protocol we use
to securely access websites.
So right now as you're
watching this video,
you're on YouTube and you're
connected to YouTube via H-T-T-P-S.
That connection is secure and encrypted
hackers can't see inside of that.
They don't know what videos
you're watching. No one does,
but you and that guy standing
behind you watch out.
So H TT PS is a secure
encrypted connection. DNS,
when it goes over H-T-T-P-S also
becomes a secure connection.
So we get things like encryption.
Even if a hacker happened to be
in the middle of a conversation,
they were sniffing your web traffic,
they wouldn't be able to see that DNS
query, it's hidden. Not only is it hidden,
it's wearing a costume. It's
wearing an H TT PS costume. You see,
normally it's pretty easy to identify DNS
traffic when you're looking at traffic
captures. You can search for
things that are using UDP Port 53,
but if DNS is using H-T-T-P-S along
with all the other web traffic,
I can't identify DNS traffic,
it's just all the website traffic.
DNS is hiding in a crowd of
people. It's like, where's Waldo?
Except he's not wearing a bright
shirt. He's just as a regular person,
you would never know, okay,
this sounds great, right?
So how do you use DNS over https? Well,
the short answer is it's pretty easy.
There are a couple of considerations. You
have to know, for example, the client,
you, your browser has to support DOH,
which thankfully most do nowadays. Also,
the DNS server you're connecting to,
the one you choose to connect
to also needs to support DOH.
Choose a DNS server that supports DOH.
Just search that CloudFlare Google.
They all have it and makes sure
your client has DOH enabled. Cool,
that's great for you. But what about
your family? What about your employees?
Are you going to go to every device and
make sure they're using DOH and they
have the appropriate settings enabled
and they're connected to the right DNS
server? You could do that, but
I don't have that time you.
This is why I like to rely
on tools like Twin Gate. Now,
twin Gate is my remote access solution.
So when I'm out and about
traveling the world,
like I for real use this when I was in
Japan or when my employees are working
from home like Florida, Nick, this is
what he uses to access our stuff here.
He'll connect to our network in the
studio using his Twin Gate client from
Florida, getting a super secure
connection to us. That's cool by itself,
you should definitely try it.
It's free for up to five users.
It's zero trust access.
You've got granular control
over what anyone can access.
I love it. I've been using it
for a long time. But back to DNS,
A cool feature we can enable is secure
DNS. Lemme show you what it looks like.
I'm going to log into my Twin
Gate dashboard, and by the way,
I don't pay for Twin Gate and
they don't give it to me for free.
I'm using the free version right now.
So in their internet security settings,
they have what's called secure
DNS. So essentially any Mac,
windows or Linux computer with my Twin
Gate client installed this policy forces
them to use DOH. I can actually enforce
that and make sure this is happening.
I can choose which DOH server I
want to use so I can use CloudFlare,
Google Open DNS, next DNS. All
these are public DNS servers,
DNS or cursive resolvers
that support DOH. Now,
if I had some restrictions on what
DNS servers my company could use,
I can specify a custom DNS server here,
and this is pretty cool
with client configuration,
I can add this machine key to my clients
and I can deploy this with any kind of
MDM solution I have. And as long as
this machine key is on their computer,
it doesn't matter.
If the Twin Gate connection is
open and connected to my network,
it'll still make sure they're using DOH,
making sure the DNS queries are always
encrypted and secure. It's persistent.
Now, you also got fallback in
case something loses connection,
whatever that might be.
You can say, you know what?
Just fall back to the system's DNS.
Maybe you got your DNS server
handed to you from your ISP,
and it's actually their DNS
providers. You don't want to do that.
Then they're really seeing what
you're doing. So in that case,
you might want to go, Hey, I want
to be pretty strict, require DOH,
even when resolvers fail,
and the resolvers would be
the DNS servers themselves.
Hey, network, Chuck from the future here.
Twin Gate just gave me DNS filtering.
They unlocked it for me. Thank you.
Twin Gate. I'm going to enable it.
Enable it for everyone. Okay, now let's
edit our filtering profile. Allow list,
deny list security categories that's
already blocking threat intelligence feeds
content restrictions. Oh yeah,
Mike has a gambling problem.
Alex is always on Facebook. We'll
leave YouTube on privacy protection.
We can block ads and trackers done. This
is pretty cool. Thank you. Twin Gate.
I just turned it on and we already have
so much in there. It's all from Nick,
Florida, Nick and Austin's MacBook.
I'm actually really excited about this.
It's already doing stuff. If
you're not already using Twin Gate,
you need to use it. Check it out.
Link below. I'm a massive fan of it,
and I've got a video up here somewhere
where I show you how to set this up and
some really cool features of how
it handles additional DNS. Now,
back to DNS security. DOH
is not the only option,
even though it is one of the more popular
ones. We've got DOT or DNS over TLS,
transport layer security, which
also is secure and encrypted.
We've got DNS Crypt doing a lot
of the same things. DNS sec,
which is actually a suite of tools on
how to make sure every query and response
is valid, not just encrypted.
And then you have DNS servers like Quad
nine that do advanced things like when
you use them as your DNS server,
they could do malware prevention.
If you happen to be going to a
website or URL, that's bad known bad,
they can prevent you from doing that. Now,
DNS is more than just domain names to
IP address mapping. Check this out.
So looking back at our zone
file for network check.com,
there's a lot of stuff going on.
Some things you're familiar with.
Others we're like, what? So for example,
right here we have
what's called a records.
These are our domain names to IP address
mappings probably the most popular
one you're aware of.
Another one that we just saw as we were
looking at our life of a query going
through that process was a name server,
otherwise known as an NS record.
The NS record or name server
record tells us what server,
what authoritative DNS server is
responsible for a second level domain.
So network shuck.com, this is his
name server, or at least one of them.
If you scroll down just a little bit more,
you'll see this crazy thing
quadruple a records overpowered.
All it is is a domain name
mapping to an IPV six address.
I'm not going to cover IPV six and this
video here just know it's bigger and
more than IPD four addresses,
but they have the same function.
And if we scroll down a bit more, we're
getting to some more exciting things.
This is kind of crazy.
We have what's called MX Records
or Mail Exchanger Records.
These records identify what
servers for a domain handle email.
What does that mean? What means if
you were to send an email to me,
which my email address is
chuck@networkchuck.com,
let's draw it up here real quick.
And if you're interested in
sponsoring one of my videos,
it'll be sponsor@networkchuck.com.
When you type in this email address into
your email client and you click send,
your email server has to figure out
who manages the emails for a network
chuck.com, which server does that?
So here is just a demo record.
You might see mail.network
chuck.com. In reality,
I use Gmail or Google Workspace,
and it would reply with a bunch of
Google servers that handle my email.
Then we have a fun one down here,
PTR records or pointer records,
how I like to refer to 'em.
These are for reverse DNS,
very important for security. These allow
you to take an IP address and go, boom,
which domain name belongs to this IP
address? You're like doing DNS in reverse.
So this allows you to verify that
when you have just the IP address,
that's a great situation. You
don't have to query anything,
but maybe it's not the right one. Maybe
it's not secure. Let's verify that.
So you can query a DNS server and say,
do you have a pointer record for this,
A PTR? And it'll reply with the
actual domain name it belongs to.
It'll look crazy like this often,
but that's what it's doing.
Kind of a crazy concept.
Now, C names are really fun.
They stand for canonical name.
Just kind of a fun word to say.
And isn't that the company that runs
Ubuntu Canonical? Yes, it is canonical.
Can I spell this first
time? I think I did.
This allows you to create an alias
for a domain. So for example,
shop network check.com, or
even www.network chuck.com,
and point it to another
domain, a canonical domain,
which means true the real
one, so alias to real.
So just think when you want to point
a domain name to a domain name,
it's usually going to
be a C name. And yes,
when you want to go to
www.whateverwebsite.com,
that's going to be a C name record
pointed to the real domain name.
And then finally, one more
record we'll talk about,
this is not exhaustive
because DNS is a whole thing,
even though we've covered a lot so far.
You are going to know DNS by
the end of this video. I mean,
you already are there. Last thing we're
going to talk about is TXT records,
which just stand for text records.
These back in the day were made just
to kind of share messages with admins.
I dunno, would they leave notes
when they would do DNS requests?
Sounds kind of fun. Tell you what,
I'm going to leave a secret message
for you guys. If you can query this,
it's going to be secret
message.network chuck.com.
Query that using your favorite DNS
querying tool and see what it says.
And please comment that below.
That's your homework. Now,
text records are used for a lot more
than just playing around. In fact,
they're vital in how we secure
email. Now, yes, we're back to email.
For example,
this one right here is an SPF record or
a TXT record specifying an SPF server.
This TXT record defines which servers
are legit for a domain. So for example,
this one might say only mail
from mail.network chuck.com is
valid for our domain. If it comes
from anywhere else, any fishy area,
that's not it. Deny it, reject
it. You don't want this.
And other mail servers can query these
TXT records to see that list of verified
mail servers.
You also might see D-K-I-M-T-X-T records
to verify that emails weren't messed
with in transit or DM a C,
which is a fairly new thing.
We actually have a course on DAC
on academy.network check.com,
and this is all about configuring policies
on how to deal with mail that doesn't
pass DKIM or SPF and how a domain
will utilize SPF and DKIM telling you
DNS is extremely powerful. Now for you,
if you want to get your own domain,
this is not sponsored by
any kind of domain provider.
Let's say you wanted to
buy, I love coffee. Coffee.
How does that process work and how do
all the DNS servers we talked about find
out about you? Well, it starts with
going to a domain registrar. Registrar.
It's kind of fun to say, go ahead
and say it for me real quick,
say it out loud so I can hear you.
Squarespace is one of those main domain
registrars now because they bought
Google Domains.
Now there's actually one boss I didn't
talk about that's above the mafia bosses.
This organization has ultimate authority.
They're called I can because
they can do whatever they want.
They're the internet corporation
for assigned names and numbers.
That's a mouthful. I really don't want
to write this, so I'm going to do anyway.
These guys help govern DNS
making sure it's run smoothly.
They're actually the ones who can
delegate, who can become a TLD server.
And another main role they have is they
accredit domain registrars. Registrar,
meaning they sign off on
these guys. They're legit.
You can buy a domain from
them. We said you could.
Now I am curious if I love coffee,
coffee is available. Let's see,
because that's one of the biggest
things you got to worry about is if your
domain is available, it is
for 50 bucks. No one steal it.
Once I buy it, I then have a choice.
I can actually use
Squarespace as my name server,
so my authoritative name
server for my domain,
which means they would hold my zone
file DNS servers would ask them for any
information about my domain.
Now, if I didn't want to do that,
and this is a common thing,
let's say I wanted to use CloudFlare as
a name server because CloudFlare has a
bunch of cool features to protect your
websites and assets. So I might say,
you know what, Squarespace,
you're cool is a domain registrar.
I love you for it. I don't want
to use you as a name server.
So here are the name servers I want to
use. So you would tell Squarespace that.
So I want it to be Pablo. Pablo,
I trust this man with my life.
This is the guy I'm going to tell
everything about me. You can ask him.
He knows. So Squarespace now armed with
the knowledge of your name servers,
has a duty of updating the T LD registry,
the top level domain registry with these
name server records or NS records. Now,
I'm curious, who operates
coffee? I've got to find out.
I'm going to query I I'm
for an NS record for coffee.
I'll ask one of the root servers.
I'll ask Jay again. I trust him. Okay,
so V zero N zero.nick.coffee.
That's interesting. Who is that?
That's a great segue into who
is when you register a domain,
you actually kind of register a lot of
stuff about you as the owner of that
domain, the name, the company address,
and that information is
maintained in the who is database.
I'm going to discover
who this Vic Coffee is.
So I looked it up and check it out.
I can't see it because you can also pay
your DNS registrar when you register to
make your information
private. It's an extra fee,
but I can see that it
says Identity Digital Inc.
I dunno if that's real or not
because everything's redacted.
But if I searched for google.com
or let's do a cia.gov,
everything's redacted. Let's try
someone real Facebook. Okay, cool.
We got some stuff for
Facebook. There it all is.
So I don't know who nick.coffee is,
but Squarespace would have to tell them
if I bought. I love Coffee. Coffee. Now,
two more things I want to talk about.
At the risk of making this video way
too long. I don't care. It's my video.
And if you're still here, thank
you so much. You're awesome.
Let's take a little
sip of coffee together.
First thing is you can actually run
your own DNS server inside your house.
It'll be a recursive DNS server,
similar to a public Google server where
it'll have a cache of a records domain,
names to IP addresses that it's
remembered that you've been to before.
And if it doesn't know an IP address,
it'll be configured to go to an
upstream DNS server. So for example,
right now I've got a raspberry pie in
my server room running as my local DNS
server for my studio. It's
running what's called ad guard,
which is fantastic
because it can block ads.
But when it doesn't know about a website,
it'll just ask the upstream server,
which I've configured as Quad nine,
CloudFlare, Google. I've got a few,
actually, another popular one.
Pi Hole. Pi Hole is very fun,
but you can absolutely run your
own DNS server in your house.
It's a really fun project.
Fairly easy to do.
I've got two videos on it right
up here. Go check 'em out.
Last thing I want to talk about,
it's a bit of foreshadowing,
is that I talked about
how DNS can be hacked.
And what I want to do is walk you through
how those hacks look and how you can
actually learn those hacks
yourself. Not for various purposes,
but for ethical hacking purposes. And
that'll be a part two of this video.
How to hack DNS. It may already be
out. Go ahead and go there right now.
That's all I got for this
video. See you guys later.
I.